feat(eslint-plugin): [no-unnecessary-type-conversion] add rule (#10182)
typescript-eslint/typescript-eslint: packages/eslint-plugin/docs/rules/no-unnecessary-type-conversion.mdx

---
description: 'Disallow conversion idioms when they do not change the type or value of the expression.'
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

> 🛑 This file is source code, not the primary documentation location! 🛑
>
> See **https://typescript-eslint.io/rules/no-unnecessary-type-conversion** for documentation.

> JavaScript has several idioms used to convert values to certain types. With TypeScript, it is possible to see at build time if the value is already of that type, making the conversion unnecessary.

Reviewer: [Docs] I think we'll want to explicitly call out what the things are in plain text, before getting to the explanation of why we don't want them -> examples of them.

```suggestion
JavaScript provides several commonly used idioms to convert values to a specific types:

* Primitive coercion (e.g. `Boolean(value)`, `String(value)`): using a built-in primitive function
* String concatenation (e.g. `value + ""`): turning a value into a string
* Unary coercion (e.g. `+value`, `!!value`): using a built-in operator

These conversions are unnecessary if the value is already that type.
```

JavaScript has several idioms used to convert values to certain types. With TypeScript, it is possible to see at build time if the value is already of that type, making the conversion unnecessary.
Performing unnecessary conversions increases visual clutter and harms code readability, so it's generally best practice to remove them if they don't change the type of an expression.

> This rule reports when a type conversion idiom is identified which does not change the runtime type of an expression.

Author: It's about the buildtime type of the expression I think more than the runtime type. The runtime type isn't necessarily the same going in vs out of the expression, and if it is it's most likely because it matches the buildtime types, which is what we are scanning.

Reviewer 2: Hmm, I guess it depends how you look at it. I was thinking about an example like this
```ts
function f(x: 1 | 2) {
   const n = x;
//       ^? const n: 1 | 2
}

function f(x: 1 | 2) {
   const n = Number(x);
//       ^? const n: number
}
```

The static TS type has changed as a result of the action of the `Number()` constructor (widened to `number`), but the _runtime_ types they imply are the same; both `1 | 2` and `number` imply `typeof n === 'number'`. Note for context that our docs generally assume the TS types are correct unless otherwise noted (as in the When Not To Use It section).

***

That all said, I think it's tricky enough to get the wording right that I think I'll revert it to "type" rather than make it worse by trying to be more precise 🙃

Author: Yeah I don't remember cause it was a while ago, but I have a feeling I intentionally avoided saying build- or runtime for something related to all of these reasons. Thank you!
